for the past few weeks I've been testing
out the nil Paulton design lesea rugged
RAID portable hard drive this drive with
its can't-miss color is specifically
designed to stand up to tough
environments the rugged Ray features a
rubber non-slip casing that will help it
absorb impacts and stand up to harsh
conditions in fact it's dust water and
shock resistant if you're someone who
travels like me with an external hard
drive then you're automatically more
susceptible to all three of those
potential failure inducing scenarios
this can make the lesea drive an
attractive prospect not to be confused
with similar looking drives in the lesea
lineup this rugged r8 drive actually
ships with two independent hard drive
spinning discs pre-configured in raid
zero for a total of four terabytes of
space this provides end-users with a lot
of headroom and extremely fast read and
write speeds but hard drive speed isn't
the only thing fast about this drive the
lezzy rugged rate is also equipped with
the USB 3.0 and thunderbolt connection
for high-speed i/o up to 240 megabytes
per second even better is the fact that
the thunderbolt connection is bus
powered which makes it easy to travel
with needless to say I've had some lofty
expectations for this drive ever since
it was first announced does the Lissie
drugget rate live up to this OS 10 users
expectations let's find out design I
can't pretend like I'm head over heels
for the design of this drive from a
color perspective or color palette
choice perspective but with that said no
one can mistake this drive for anything
else and the bright orange color makes
it easy to spot in a cluttered area my
favorite thing about the design is the
fact that it features a non removable
built-in Thunderbolt cable that neatly
wraps around the exterior of the drive
and tucks away inside its housing it
even features a removable cap that snaps
onto the end of the Thunderbolt cable
for a neat and self-contained look in my
opinion is great to have a Thunderbolt
cable that's always there but I
understand that some may not like this
feature for instance if the Thunderbolt
cable goes bad then there's no way to
replace the cable with another one that
said I think the chance of that
happening is low with this Drive as the
cable isn't flimsy and the mini
DisplayPort connector feels very solid
as well performance as one would expect
with the raid 0 configuration
performance is really good
or spinning discs in my Blackmagic speed
test average well over 200 megabytes per
second for read and write obviously
that's not enough to saturate the
throughput potential of either under
boat or USB 3.0 for that matter but it's
nice to have plenty of headroom to work
with
I didn't bother enabling raid 1
configuration as it ships pre-configured
with raid 0 raid 1 will come at the
expense of hard drive space you'll lose
about half the disk capacity but it also
comes with the benefit of still being
able to function if one of the drives in
the array happens to fail since I plan
on using this drive to hold
non-essential items like scratch data
for video raid 0 is perfect for me I
need the absolute fastest configuration
possible in the default configuration
for the Revit raid is just that
now if I were backing up photos or other
important information I definitely
consider going with raid 1 it's just
hard for me to recommend using this
drive in that way because speed is one
of its hallmark features and you can
only obtain that speed by using raid 0
portability the fact that the Lissie
rugged Rea comes with a built-in
Thunderbolt cable and as bus power means
that it's inherently more portable than
many other drives in this class sadly
the USB 3.0 setup isn't as seamless it
requires both the USB cable and a power
connection since the USB connection
doesn't provide power due to the
ruggedness of this drive it's a little
bigger than one may expect it's also
quite dense it's still portable but
they're smaller drives with the same
amount of storage space and similar
performance at the end of the day you're
going to have to determine whether or
not the rugged aspect of this drive is
really a need personally speaking I
think it's very nice not to have to
worry about handling this drive like
it's a piece of fine china you can
easily just chuck it in a backpack
without worrying about it value make no
mistake about it this is an expensive
drive at around $400 but you're paying
for its ruggedness and the peace of mind
that comes with that you're also paying
for neal poland's sleek design although
the color of the protective casing
wouldn't have been my first choice
you're also paying for the built-in
Thunderbolt cable and the fact that it's
bus powered using sad cable being able
to simply grab this drive without having
to worry about any cables or anything
else will be highly valuable for some of
you
conclusion Mac users with Thunderbolt
equipped computers are obviously the
primary target of this Drive it can be
used on machines that feature USB
connectivity obviously but it comes
at the expense of convenience the
Lasserre ugga trade is also very fast in
a stock raid0 configuration but that too
comes at a cost as rate zero is
inherently less reliable than other rate
can fix if you're a Mac user frequently
on the go and need easy plug-and-play
convenience then this drive is quite the
compelling package it features tons of
space it's easy to use and you just
don't have to worry about it for someone
like me who edits video on-the-go with
the MacBook Pro this Drive is perfect
for me
it won't be that way with everyone but
if your work flows into anything like
mine then I'm betting that you'll love
it